well howdy there and another people it's
Bo again so tonight we've got a weird
story what it's definitely interesting
our story starts off with two guys
approaching a 22 year old engineering
student asking for help oh hey we got
friends on the other side of the border
we want to build a title we need your
help
engineering student he's a refugee
himself so he says okay and they start
looking and they find a factory and
inside that factory they can put the
entrance to their tunnel nobody will see
it
it's perfect they start digging doesn't
take long to realize they need help
so they recruit a couple more
engineering students and they've been
digging for weeks now trying to get to a
house on the other side of the border
that belongs to one of their friends
they're just gonna pop up in the middle
of it he doesn't know they're doing this
by the way and weeks go by they still
haven't even made it to the border they
realize they need better tools I need
more diggers in short they need money
NBC News decides to pay for the tools
besides to fund building this pump can
you believe that once they get their
tools things go a little bit smoother
they get going they're about 150 feet
away from where they want to be but when
disaster strikes pipe burst
what's the tunnel so then being young
and reckless they just called the
utilities said hey you got a bus pipe
and they came out and fixed it they
didn't get caught but the tunnel was
already flooded tunnel was already
flooded so they had to wait for it to
dry out as they're sitting there waiting
sitting
their hands they find out there's
another tunnel being dug right up the
road so they offered a help they've got
pretty much the same plan and they're
gonna pop up in somebody's house
now the other todd was not built by an
engineering student so it needed some
help to begin with but they get it
working and they get the tunnel built
all the way over and to let everybody
know they send somebody across the
border to let the refugees know we got a
way for you to get out thing has the
person they sent was an informant
everybody on the other side got busted
but that did not deter our engineering
student and his friends because that
other tunnel will let it dried out now
so they went back to work there
and rather than aim for their friend's
house they're just gonna go to the
nearest place nearest building and just
pop up in it and get everybody out but
they can't and they have you got to be
real careful though because you're a lot
of patrols Border Patrol running up and
down that area so they get it dug and
they send a friend across the border to
let the people know give him the signal
it's time to move
she went into these different bars you
know in different signals in different
bars to let people know what was going
on I guess one she bought like a
matchbook maybe that sounds weird
something like that and another one she
was gonna get a cup of coffee but they
were out of coffee so in order to make
sure everybody knows what's going on and
got the signal she starts like throwing
a fit but because they didn't have her
coffee ask to speak to the regional
manager and everything now while all
this is going on the the people that had
dug the tunnels they popped up in this
building and they're sitting there
for what happened last time they brought
guns and they're standing there waiting
and NBC had no danger to themselves of
course they're they're back on the other
side at the exit to the tunnel now
filming this empty hole and they're
filming and filming and waiting having
no idea what's going on on the other
side the risk these people are under and
all of a sudden a woman pops out covered
in mud then a baby then refugees pour
out of this hole for an hour it said
that when Kennedy saw the footage he
cried he cried as those people made it
to safety in West Berlin made it to
freedom defeated that wall
so the President of the United States
declared this month American history and
founders month the like this is a good
story to tell if you want more
information on it you can find it under
tunnel 29 BBC just a special walnut
it's amazing how how your views on these
things are just based on which side of
the wall of you're on and what decade
you're at how much that decade actually
values freedom anyway it's just a
thought I'll have a good night